All right.
So congratulations on reaching the end of another course section.
In this section, we formally integrated TypeScript into our job search project and we used it to convert
all of our view X related code to be in TypeScript.
So let's quickly review everything that we learned.
As we know, TypeScript is JavaScript with types.
You can think of it like an enhanced version of the core JavaScript language except with the benefits
of type checking.
So when you have type checking, you can reduce the likelihood of a whole category of errors related
to using the wrong type right.
And we can very easily add TypeScript to a view project by simply using the view.
SEELYE That command was view add TypeScript.
Okay.
So how did we start our process of migrating our code base to TypeScript?
Well, we simply started converting JavaScript files to TypeScript files by changing their extensions
from J.S. to T.S. and we saw that whenever we do that, we may encounter violations and all that.
A violation usually is.
Is TypeScript telling you that it doesn't know what kind of type it's working with and thus it cannot
validate that you're using that type correctly?
If TypeScript doesn't know, for example, that something is a string, then it can't tell you whether
the method that you're invoking on that string is a valid one or an invalid one.
Right?
So we have to provide types whenever TypeScript cannot infer or guess or calculate what kind of type
that value has.
Right.
We also saw how we could use an interface to define complex object types.
That means objects with lots of properties with their own different types.
We can use interfaces to handle that situation and a perfect use case for that was our view text or
state.
We gave that interface the name Global State and described our entire view store state.
There was four properties there like jobs, selected organizations, selected job types, etc..
All right.
We also learned about the partial type in TypeScript.
That's a type we can use.
It accepts a generic argument, which means it accepts its own argument of a type.
You do that within those brackets, the less than sign and the greater than sign.
And what it does is it creates a new type where all the properties of the original type are made optional.
So this is the example we used in our code base.
We use the partial type.
We gave it a generic type argument of global state.
And what it did is it ran through global state and it gave us back a new type that is very similar to
global state.
It has all the same properties and all the expected types for those properties, except that all of
those properties are now optional.
And the advantage of this approach is that we can utilize it in places like our test suite to get the
benefits of both worlds.
We can have tests that tell an effective story but also utilize valid objects that the actual implementation
expects to receive.
We saw how TypeScript was unhappy with some of our tests because we were passing in objects that weren't
fulfilling the original contract.
We said they would in the actual implementation and the partial type allowed us to get the best of both
worlds using real objects in our tests, but not having every test describe all of those properties
in painstaking detail.
All right.
We also saw that TypeScript does not understand that the just mock method, it replaces an implementation
with a just mock function.
That's why it was complaining about our use with things like mock resolved value, because I thought
we were invoking that method on the original function, for example, rather than the just mock function
that replaced it.
However, we saw that there was a pretty simple solution for that.
We can use the as keyword to tell TypeScript to treat a value as having a different type.
So for example, this is something directly from our code base.
You can see we define a constant called get jobs mark and what it does is actually point to the exact
same function that get jobs is however by using the as keyword, we're telling TypeScript to treat get
jobs as if its type is a just mock function.
And TypeScript says, okay, I have this feeling about what get jobs is.
You've told me instead to treat it as if it's type is a just mock function.
I know that a just mock function has a mock resolve value method on it.
So later on in the code base, if you use get jobs mock Microsoft value, I will assume that that is
a valid method because you've told me to treat it as a just mock object.
All right.
So once again, it's kind of finding the right interplay between having all of the pieces of your codebase
communicate with each other.
TypeScript is a language for typing in JavaScript just is a NPM library for running a test we and making
assertions and we have to make sure they understand each other because TypeScript out of the box doesn't
understand what just Mark does behind the scenes.
All right.
We also saw how we can go to type definition files to see the types that other developers have typed
for us.
So whenever you see something like an imported function or an imported component, anything from any
other library, you can always command and click into that in this code and you're going to go to it's
type definition, and that's usually going to be in the actual NPM library in your node modules directory.
And this is helpful when analyzing other people's code.
For example, we discovered that we can provide a generic type argument to the computed function and
that allowed us to be more specific in defining the types of the return values of our composable functions.
We saw that we could, for example, tell the computer function the type of the value that the reactive
object in returns will wrap.
So we saw that view.
Or rather, TypeScript is smart enough to understand that the computed function returns a reactive object
because it can read the documentation or the type for that function.
But it is not smart enough to understand that that reactive object will, for example, wrap an array
of jobs.
But using the generic type arguments being more explicit and manual in our code, we can communicate
those extra details to TypeScript.
And remember, the more details we give to the language, the better it can type.
Check the.
Better.
It can validate that we are using the right types, that we are performing valid operations, that we
are invoking valid methods, that we're passing the right types to the right methods, the right types
to the right functions, etc..
All right.
And that's really all there is to cover in this lesson.
Congratulations on reaching the end of another course section and the very next section.
We're going to continue learning more about TypeScript.
We're going to start applying it to the components in our code base.
So lots of fun up ahead and I will see you in the next section.